backtracing docs in Swift Server guides (#88)
swiftlang/docs: server-guides/Sources/ServerGuides.docc/swift-backtrace-configuration.md

| `images` | `none`, `mentioned`, `all`, `preset` | `preset` | Loaded shared-library list; `mentioned` includes only those referenced by frames. |
| `limit` | integer, `none` | `64` | Maximum frames per thread, to prevent runaway output on infinite recursion. |
| `top` | integer | `16` | When `limit` truncates, always keep this many frames from the top of stack. |
| `sanitize` | `yes`, `no`, `preset` | `preset` | Strips PII from paths in captured frames. Has no effect on Linux; the runtime parses the option but doesn't transform paths outside macOS. |

When the captured stack has more than `limit` frames, the backtracer keeps
`top` frames from the top of the stack (the deepest, most recent calls)
and `limit - 1 - top` frames from the bottom (the entry into the program),
joined by a `...` marker.
For example, a 10-frame stack with `limit=5,top=2` shows frames 10, 9, then
`...`, then 2, and 1. This lets you see both where execution started and where
the fault occurred when a runaway recursion exceeds the limit.

### Unwinding and symbolication

| Option | Values | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|

> | `unwind` | `auto`, `fast`, `precise` | `auto` | `fast` uses frame pointers only; `precise` consults DWARF unwind information. `auto` picks per-frame. |

Reviewer: `auto` chooses this setting on a per-platform basis; it doesn't pick per-frame. Also, right now, `precise` actually doesn't really do anything — it's a hint that you might tolerate slower backtraces in exchange for more accuracy in future (we don't have DWARF unwind code at the moment).

```suggestion
| `unwind` | `auto`, `fast`, `precise` | `auto` | `fast` uses frame pointers only; `precise` may consult debug information, if present. `auto` picks a default based on the platform. |
```

> | `symbolicate` | `full`, `fast`, `off` | `full` | `full` resolves inlined frames using DWARF; `fast` resolves only the outermost symbol; `off` reports raw addresses. |

Reviewer: Both `full` and `fast` search the ELF symbol table for symbols, but in addition:

`full` tries to look up both inline frames _and_ source locations using DWARF debug information, if it exists.

`fast` only tries to look up source locations.

> | `cache` | `yes`, `no` | `yes` | Caches symbol lookups across frames. |

Reviewer: `cache` has no effect on Linux at present. It isn't about caching symbol lookups across frames; it's about enabling caching mechanisms in the underlying symbol fetching machinery.

Symbolication quality depends on what's in your binary.

> Stripped binaries report addresses without symbol names.

Reviewer: Stripped binaries will often still contain _some_ symbols, and in that case we may display the name of a visible symbol preceding the address we're looking up, along with a (typically larger) offset. For example, if you had a program

```
int foo(int a, int b) {
  ...
  return 42;
}

static int bar(int x) {
   ...
   return  7;
}
```

then a crash in `bar` in a stripped binary might show up as `foo + 1484` in the backtrace output (assuming `foo` was kept and `bar` was stripped).

...
```

Bracketed labels denote frame attributes: `[ra]` for return-address frames,
`[async]` for async resumption points, `[system]` for compiler-generated or
runtime frames, and `[thunk]` for compiler-generated bridges. The same
attributes appear in JSON output as the frame's `kind` field and the
`system` and `thunk` Boolean markers.
For the same crash represented as JSON, see <doc:swift-backtrace-configuration#Example-payload>.

JSON output produces one object per crash, with a top-level
`description` describing the failure, a `faultAddress`, `platform`,
`architecture`, and a `threads` array containing per-thread frame lists,
along with registers when configured.
See <doc:swift-backtrace-configuration#JSON-crash-log-schema> for the full schema.

Pipe the JSON output to a process that ships off your logs or write it to a mounted volume:

```bash
SWIFT_BACKTRACE=format=json,output-to=/var/crash-logs/
```

### Advanced options

| Option | Values | Default | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| `timeout` | duration (`30s`), `none` | `30s` | How long the runtime waits for the backtrace to finish. |

> | `swift-backtrace` | path | auto-detected | Override the implicit search and use the given absolute path directly. Required for statically linked binaries in minimal containers, where the implicit search can't reliably find the helper. |

Reviewer: Note that this option _should_ be disabled in distro-supplied runtimes, since in that case everything will be at a fixed path. (This includes the system runtime on macOS.)

| `warnings` | `enabled`, `suppressed` | `enabled` | Diagnostic messages from the backtracer itself. |

> | `close-fds` | `yes`, `no` | `no` | Close all open file descriptors in the crashing process before gathering the trace, useful in CI environments where leaked file descriptors cause resource contention. |

Reviewer: This isn't about resource contention. It's there to make sure that in container environments, centralised routing machinery detects the failure of the container _early_, before the backtracer starts trying to generate a backtrace, so that we don't have additional requests routed to the failed container that subsequently have to be retried.

The runtime locates `swift-backtrace` by deriving a Swift root directory
and searching a fixed set of subdirectories underneath it.
The root is whichever of these the runtime finds first:

1. The value of the `SWIFT_ROOT` environment variable, if set.
2. A path computed from the location of `libswiftCore` (when the runtime is
   dynamically linked).
3. A path computed from the location of the running executable (when the
   runtime is statically linked into the program).

Within the root, the runtime checks these locations in order, where
`<platform>` is the Swift platform name (for example, `linux`) and `<arch>` is the
CPU architecture (for example, `x86_64` or `aarch64`):

```
<root>/libexec/swift/<platform>
<root>/libexec/swift/<platform>/<arch>
<root>/libexec/swift
<root>/libexec/swift/<arch>
<root>/bin
<root>/bin/<arch>
<root>
```

The runtime doesn't consult `PATH`. If none of the above contain the helper,
the runtime can't capture crashes — set `SWIFT_BACKTRACE=swift-backtrace=<path>` to point
at it explicitly, or place the binary at one of the search locations.

### JSON crash log schema

> When `format=json`, the backtracer emits one JSON object per crash.

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning that the JSON object is output as a single line (i.e. no line breaks), to make it easier to process the output with certain types of log processing tooling.

Addresses appear as hexadecimal strings (with `0x` prefix); raw byte data
such as captured memory or build IDs appears as un-prefixed hexadecimal
strings with no inter-byte whitespace.
The backtracer omits Boolean fields when `false`, and omits unknown or empty
values entirely to save space.

> #### Top-level fields

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the material here. Would we not be better referring to the `docs/Backtracing.rst` file in the Swift repository? It seems like we're in danger of ending up with a non-authoritative copy of the specification for the JSON output here.

Author: I debated that as well - I'm trying to surface documentation - and Backtracing.rst in the swift docs directory is frankly really buried. I'd like to see it lifted out and published as proper reference technical documentation.

Reviewer: I'm really keen that we keep the specification in the Swift repo with the code that implements it. Having it elsewhere just means the two can easily get out of step, and also means we need two separate PRs to two different places, possibly reviewed by separate groups of people, to make any changes to it.

I don't know if we have any other situations where we've dealt with a similar problem in the past that we can look at and see what people did about those?

Author: We don't have many examples of this to date - but there's more than just you with the same problem space. We have nascent documentation content in swift today under `/userdocs` (the diganostics for the compiler that we're publishing) - but there's a whole area about C/C++ interop that needs attention and lifting, the docs content for that which would be ideally situated inside the swift repository as well.

Since I'm collecting these broader documentation pieces together for swift.org generally, let me pull this content from here and work on how to start assembling something real in terms of a general documentation catalog (DocC catalog) as docs/ - converting the rst and other files - so that we *can* organize the publish that content. I do think the reference you created is clearly useful for these articles to reference, so I'll switch this up to point to the raw GitHub repository for now, although I kind of hate how jarring that is from a reading/learning perspective.

Author: I pushed updates that reference the content in swift through it's GitHub page (direct links to GitHub and the main branch) so that we weren't duplicating the content and putting it "farther away" from where the development work happens for it.

|---|---|
| `symbol` | Mangled symbol name. |
| `offset` | Offset from the symbol to the frame address. |
| `description` | Demangled, human-readable description (when `demangle=yes`). |
| `image` | Name of the image containing the symbol. |
| `sourceLocation` | `{ file, line, column }` dictionary, when `symbolicate=full` and DWARF info is available. |

#### Image records

| Field | Value |
|---|---|
| `name` | Image name. |
| `buildId` | Build ID as un-prefixed hex string. |
| `path` | Path to the image. |
| `baseAddress` | Base address of the image text (hex string). |
| `endOfText` | End of the image text (hex string). |

#### Example payload

The following report comes from a small service whose `MyService.run()` calls
into a synchronous closure that invokes `MyService.handleRequest`, which
dereferences a NULL-adjacent pointer.
The binary for this example was built with debug information and run on Linux arm64 with
default backtracer settings (`format=json`, preset `auto`, `demangle=yes`,
`symbolicate=full`).
To keep this example concise, the `registers` and `capturedMemory` objects show only a
representative subset of their entries; a real trace contains every

> general-purpose register and many more captured memory snapshots.

Reviewer: There should be a note here that the payload has been pretty-printed. The backtracer outputs the JSON as a single line.
